# PHYS250 assignment 1: random numbers

Use the Jupyter notebook on random numbers as a guide for writing your own tests of various random number generators, and tests of coincidence between multiple random numbers. This is extremely relevant in the case of low background counting experiments and high rate environments where multiple signals within a given time window can wreak havoc on a system if not accounted for.

In order to assess if our random numbers really make any sense, we need to compare to our expectations. To do that, we need to run our test many times and make a further histogram of the distribution of chi-squared values that we obtain. That should be compared to the analytical result for a chi-squared for the same number of degrees of freedom (which is the number of bins - 1).

1. Write a function that takes two user-defined parameters and returns two different random numbers. These two parameters should specify the minimum and maximum values of the random number. 
   * Sketch the solution with *pseudocode* first! This must be included as part of your solution.
   * Question: How can you protect against two identical random numbers being returned?
1. Quantitatively evaluate the degree to which the purportedly random numbers generated by the internal `numpy` RNG are actually random by evaluating the full chi-squared distribution.
1. Test at least 2 additional random number generators by either creating your own (e.g. linear congruential generators such as the IBM one discussed in class), or using other libraries in python (e.g. `rng = random.SystemRandom()`). 
1. Much like our `sum` example above, try to evaluate the correlation between two and three different random numbers. A suggestion for doing this is to create 2D and 3D graphs and evaluate the correlations that way. You are expected to try this, especially if you already know some programming.
1. Draw two random numbers from an exponential distribution. You should create a new function that builds on the one written above, but which now uses an exponential function. For bonus points, make the functional form configurable. 
1. Evaluate the probability that the two random samples from the above exponential distribution fall within a given time window. The relevance of this problem is in the evaluation of random coincidence signals from radioactive decay, which is a huge problem in low background detection experiments. 